Welcome back let's implement depth first search using in order preorder and post order and we're going
to start off with in order.
First
now let's name this let's call it depth first.
Traversal or search in this case and we'll say in order.
Now within here we're going to use recursion because while most of the time def first search is implemented
using recursion because it's quite simple to do so.
As you'll see but if you remember from implementing breadth first search with recursion because we're
going to be calling this function over and over.
We can't just declare variables inside of it because they'll be reset.
So we're going to do the same thing as we did here but to keep things clean and to also show you how
different ordered def for searches work because we're going to have three of them.
We're going to have in order Post order and pre order I'm going to create three separate functions down
here describing these.
So all I'm going to say in here is we're going to have return to reverse in order function.
This will be our recursive function and DFS in order method simply returns whatever gives us this result.
So in our case we're going to add this Daut route.
Start off with our root node and we're going to give it a list or our answers will be entered and we're
going to do the same thing for post order and preorder just naming them.
There are appropriate ways.
So let's write the first function Cerveris.
If I can spell traverse post order and preorder you.
Let's start off with the first one.
It's going to be a function called traverse in order that we created up above.
That's going to get a node and some sort of data or we can call it list.
In this case now remember that in order is going to give us the list of nodes in order in sorted order
if we look at our tree we want to ideally have 1 4 6 9 15 20 170.
And the way we go about doing that is well first of all we're going to check hey does the node have
a left chop.
If it does well then we're going to church verse all the way down using recursion to node dot laughed
and pass data again.
I know recursion can be tough to grasp at first but all we're saying here is that if the node especially
the root node when we first start off it if it has a left child which 9 does then traverse all the way
down keep going left it's going to call this function and it's going to keep going left until the node
has no more children and we end up at one when we end up at 1.
I want to well last dot push our answer node dot value.
So once there's no more node left that is where at one thing go to the next step which is to push this
value one to the list.
After that we're going to do the same thing we did up here to the right.
That is we want to go to check that right now and say hey go all the way to the right until there's
no more children.
And now we have six and we go through this function once again when we have six.
There's no left child and it's going to push the current node value which is 6 to the right so let's
actually console log this.
And by the way we want to return.
Remember we want to return the list at the end.
So I'm going to console the log node dot thali and if I click run here or let's make sure this works
I'm going to say Traverse in order
I'm going to comment out these two and say tree dot D at fast in order and we're just going to run this
file around this who I get data is not defined.
Because what this has to be list over here past the LIST.
Hey let's run and look at that.
We have 1 4 6 9 15 20 170 and we see here the path that we took because I consol look to your right.
We have 9 4 1 then 6.
Then we go back to 20 15 then 170 but because we're pushing our answers to the list after we verified
the left notes and traversed all the way down the lowest numbers get put into the list.
Now the beauty of this is that implementing the other two now becomes extremely easy because they're
very similar.
Just the order changes.
So the next one which is traverse let's say
preorder.
The only difference now is that well you've got to make sure that we recursively call the right name.
The only difference is that with preorder we want to push at the very beginning before we get to the
very left note.
Because remember in a pre order traversal we go 9 4 1 6 then 20 15 170.
We start with the parents first and that's the order.
So we push the parent first which is 9.
Then we got four then one then we get six and 20 and 50 than 170.
Let's see if that works.
I'm going to change this to pre order make sure I spell that right.
Preorder purrfect and then head run and look at that.
We went 9 4 1 6 20:15 170 in that order in the list.
Now here you can pause the video and see if we can implement the last one yourself.
It should be fairly simple.
Right.
All right.
I'm going to get going.
The Post order is going to be very similar.
We'll say Traverse post order we'll have the last push at the very end.
And why is that.
Because we check 1 6 the left and the right and then the top four then 15 170 20 then 9.
So the order as the name suggests is post is at the end.
So if I changed just to post order now.
And I hit Ron.
We have her wrong order because I need to make sure I change the names so it's her cursive.
So we say Traverse porous border posts border posts order not preorder.
And if I had run that's much better.
We go nine for one.
And we start adding this to the list.
I go 1 6 4 then 15 170 20 and then 9 and if we print all of this out and I click run well let's remove
the console logs from here.
And just console log each one of these
for head run.
There is our logs.
We have the post order we have the pre order and now we have the in order.
All of them are depth first search is just done in different orders.
Now I'll leave the code for you to explore here because it is recursion.
It might take a bit of time to get your mind wrapped around it but you see here that it wasn't that
difficult.
We implemented breadth first search both atre Tivoli and recursively and we also use depth for a search
in order Post order and preorder.
And if you think about it it starts to become more and more clear.
Especially when it comes to death for search.
All we're doing is we're checking the left element and the right element or the right note.
So that is the left reference and right reference of each note.
And sure we're doing these actions in different order sometimes depending on which ordering strategy
we choose.
But we're still doing the same three things.
We're checking the left checking the right or we're just pushing a node to our list to our answer.
And for those of you that may have realized we're using a stack data structure right here with the recursion.
Each of these functions are added to our call stack and we'll start to return as they reach the end.
That is there is no more left and right children.
And this is important to understand because it shows the space complexity of death for search.
The amount of space that we need in terms of memory unlike breadth first search which used the Q The
height of the tree will tell us how much memory we'll need because the height of the tree will match
the deepest recursive function and that's what's going to be added to the stack as memory.
So our memory consumption is all of height of the tree which will give us the worst case scenario when
using depth first search.
So now that you understand better how these searches or traversal work I encourage you to go step by
step code your own.
See if you can add this to your tree data structure as well.
Because the beauty is once you know how this works you also just learn how to traverse through a graph.
Congratulations and I'll see you in the next video.